---
categories: []
image: https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/ub4jut4gar4l2r0c3ym8.png
layout: post
tags:
  - Awesome Lists
  - awk
  - CLI
  - Coding Standard
  - Data Portability
  - Distributed Web
  - Docker
  - GitHub Actions
  - Grant for the Web
  - grep
  - Linked Data
  - Linter
  - Lua
  - Monitization
  - Nextcloud
  - NodeJS
  - Payment
  - PDS Interop
  - PHP
  - Programming Reference
  - Roblox
  - Rust
  - Shell
  - Solid
  - Solid App
  - Solid Pod
  - Standards
  - Web Credit
  - Yeoman
title: Week 24
---
start time: 8:30
---
# Week 24

This week's Github Stars overview is a couple of days late. I was so busy, it was hard to find the time to sit down and write it all out.

What has been taking up all my time you ask?

Besides preparing my [Grant for the Web][1] application, I started on a new project that will keep me busy in the coming months: Solid-Nextcloud.

I am joining [some brave folks][4] in an attempt to create an app that turns a [Nextcloud][2] server into a fully functional [Solid][3] server. I'll be sure to write about it here, so you can keep track of our progress.

And, if that wasn't enough, I am also building a [Roblox][5] game in the evening with my son.

Pfew. Let's see what repos that made me stars!

[1]: https://www.grantfortheweb.org/apply
[2]: https://nextcloud.com/
[3]: https://solidproject.org/
[4]: https://github.com/orgs/pdsinterop/people
[5]: https://www.roblox.com/

## Last week's starred repos

### `theryangeary/choose`

{% github theryangeary/choose %}

This is the only non-themed discovery this week.

If you spend a lot of time on the CLI, you've probably encountered situations where you want to grab some fields from a set of data. The go-to tools are
usually `awk`, `cut`, or `grep`. Although powerful, they require a lot of knowledge and have some weird quirks and shortcomings.

Written in Rust, `choose` offers an easier and more intuitive alternative.

To give you an example, let's say we have a `data.txt` that contains lines of data separated by an `:`. We want the first, third, and last item from a line. To make it more excited, the amount of fields is flexible.

How would that look with `choose`?

```
choose -f ':' 0 3 -1
```

Now compare that with `cut`:
```
cat ./data.txt | cut -d ':' -f "1,3,$(cat ./data.txt | tr -cd ':' | wc -c)-"
```

Or `awk`:
```
awk -F ':'  '{print $1 $3 $NF}'  ./data.txt
```

And you'll understand why this repo got a star!

### Awesome Lists

As there wasn't one, I created [an Awesome List for Solid][6]. There were some tools I found useful along the way.

[6]: https://pdsinterop.org/awesome-solid

{% github dar5hak/generator-awesome-list %}

The Yeoman generator is really helpful to get started creating an Awesome List.

It is just a simple thing, but it saves you from having to research what rules an Awesome List should adhere to. It generates a `readme.md`, `license`, `code-of-conduct.md`, and skeleton `contributing.md` file.

Everything you need to get up and running!

{% github sindresorhus/awesome-lint %}

If you create an Awesome List, you want it to be Awesome. The Linter helps do just that. It checks for all sorts of things and tells you what you need to fix.

As it is written in NodeJS, it can be added to your `package.json` and be run using `npm test`:

```
    {
      "devDependencies": {
        "awesome-lint": "^0.13.0"
      },
      "scripts": {
        "test": "awesome-lint"
      }
    }
```

This also makes it trivial to add a GitHub action for it, for any future merge-requests your awesome list is bound to get 😏

{% github sdras/awesome-actions %}

Looking into GitHub actions for my own Awesome List, I came across an Awesome List for GitHub action. So, yeah, I starred it further research.

### NextCloud

{% github nextcloud/server %}

In case you are not familiar with it, [Nextcloud][7] is a self-hosted productivity platform. Think of it as a simpler version of Dropbox, Google Calendar, Microsoft Office 365, and Trello all rolled into one.

If that isn't something worth starring, I don't know what is!

[7]: https://nextcloud.com/

{% github andreasjacobsen93/awesome-nextcloud %}

As Nextcloud is awesome there is an Awesome List for it, of course.

A good place to get some ideas about how the already awesome Nextcloud can be made even more so!

{% github nextcloud/docker %}

Developing something for Nexcloud, I will obviously need to have a running Nextcloud server. So, besides starring the main NextCloud repo, I also gave a star to this official Docker images repo.

{% github nextcloud/coding-standard %}

Any code I'll be creating for Nextcloud will have to adhere to the Nextcloud coding standard. This repo helps do that.

[When in Rome][8]...

[8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_in_Rome,_do_as_the_Romans_do

### Solid

{% github solid/solid %}

[Solid][9] is an exciting new idea (and set of specifications to go along with it). It is part of the distributed web movement, aimed at data portability and identity/authentication.

Check out https://solidproject.org for all the details.

This repo is where the magic happens, so starred it is!

[9]: https://solidproject.org/

{% github joinsolid/joinsolid.org %}

Although no longer maintained, I liked the idea of https://joinsolid.org.
From a marketing perspective, having an easily identifiable domain with a one-click join button is rather appealing, so I starred it for future reference.

{% github linkeddata/ldphp %}

Solid works with linked data. Nextcloud is written in PHP. As we are building an app to turn Nextcloud into a Solid server, any Linked Data server is of interest to me. Even if the last commit is from 2018

{% github michielbdejong/solid-app-kit %}

Solid servers can also run apps. To give you an idea of what that looks like, solid-app-kit contains both a server and an app.

{% github solidpayorg/docs %}

Doing some research for Solid, I came across SolidPay.

> Solid Pay is about making payments between two people on the Web. It builds heavily on the Solid framework and [the webcredits specification][10].

As I am also working on Web Monetization, I found this quite interesting. It is mostly an idea at the moment, but I'll definitely be keeping tabs on the implementation! ⭐

[10]: https://webcredits.org/

{% github pdsinterop/awesome-solid %} https://pdsinterop.org/awesome-solid/

If you haven't noticed yet, Solid is awesome! But, as it turns out, there wasn't an Awesome List for it yet... so I created one!

Naturally, I also starred it. 🤗

### Roblox

{% github buoyantair/awesome-roblox %}

What can I say? I love awesome lists and this curated list of ROBLOX resources, plugins, and frameworks looks good enough to star!.

{% github JodeRBX/awesome-roblox %}
A curated list of awesome libraries, plugins, and resources for Roblox game development.

{% github RobloxAPI/ref %}

Although the official API documentation is nice, it is also rather verbose.

For beginners that is good but for more seasoned developers it can be rather distracting. The Roblox Lua API Reference Pages offer a non-thrills, quick-access overview of the Roblox Lua API.

Visit it at https://robloxapi.github.io/ref/

### Monetization

{% github WICG/webmonetization %}

If you haven't yet, check out https://webmonetization.org That's okay. I'll wait...

Are you blown away? You should be! I expect big things from this.

This repo contains the proposed standard that underpins Web Monetization.

It may be a bit dry to read but it will change the internet!

{% github interledgerjs/minute %}

If you do anything with Web Monetization, you'll need a Web Monetization Provider. Currently, the only one out there is [Coil][11].

With this library, you don't _need_ Coil as you can connect with Wallets directly, using the Internet Ledger Protocol .

If you want to understand a bit more about how all of this work, read the code.

It'll be worth your investment!

[11]: https://coil.com/

## Closing notes

As you can see, I've been keeping busy. This week's stars reflect that.

No doubt, the coming weeks will bring you more Nextcloud, Solid, Roblox, and Web Monetisation repos.

What else will be on the list? Tune in next week to find out!

{% user potherca %} {% tag weekly %} {% tag github %} {% tag stars %}

- - -
