---
categories: []
image: https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/2fnsn7zbtp0j2wg9uw5i.png
layout: post
tags:
  - Awesome List
  - Data Transfer
  - Icons
  - Github Pages
  - Interledger
  - Nextcloud
  - Docker
  - Solid
  - Testing
  - Web Monetization
  - XRP
  - Zerocracy
title: Week 25
---

# Week 25

Last week I finished my application for the [Grant for the Web][1]. This means a
lot of stars this week have to with the [Interledger Protocol][2] and
[Web Monetization][3].

The Solid-Nextcloud project I am working on is starting to pick up speed, so
that also lead to some stars.

Finally, I've been setting up a repo for my weekly star posts, so that is also
a theme.

That said, lets go to the _other_ stars _first_.

[1]: https://www.grantfortheweb.org/
[2]: https://interledger.org/
[3]: https://webmonetization.org/

## Last week's starred repos

### Data Transfer Project

{% github google/data-transfer-project %}

The Data Transfer Project makes it easy for people to transfer their data between online service providers. We are establishing a common framework, including data models and protocols, to enable direct transfer of data both into and out of participating online service providers.

### eXtremely Distributed Software Development

{% github yegor256/xdsd %}

### Feather Icons

{% github feathericons/feather %}

### Terms of Service; Didn't Read

{% github tosdr/tosdr.org %}

https://tosdr.org

### Zerocracy

{% github zerocracy/zerocracy.github.io %}

https://zerocracy.com

### Awesome lists

{% github jthegedus/github-action-awesome-lint %}
GitHub Action for awesome-lint where you specify the package version!

{% github maguowei/starred %}
creating your own Awesome List by GitHub stars!

### Solid

#### Awesome Solid

{% github pdsinterop/awesome-solid %}

⬣ Awesome list of Solid (social inked data) tools, libraries, resources, and shiny things.

#### Solid Apps

{% github solid/solid-apps %}

#### Solid Panes

{% github solid/solid-panes %}

A set of core solid-compatible apps based on solid-ui

#### Solid Project

{% github solid/solidproject.org %}

https://solidproject.org

### Web Monetization

#### Interledger Open Payments

{% github interledger/open-payments %}

Protocol to setup payments between entities on the Web based on OAuth 2.0

#### `interledgerjs/ilp`

{% github interledgerjs/ilp %}

ILP client for browsers/Node.js

#### `interledgerjs/moneyd`

{% github interledgerjs/moneyd %}

Connect your machine to the Interledger

#### Ripple lib

{% github ripple/ripple-lib %}

A JavaScript API for interacting with the XRP Ledger in Node.js and the browser

#### Tessy

{% github VladimirMikulic/tessy %}

🧪 Advanced Web Monetization testing library with powerful declarative API.

#### XRP Tip Bot

{% github WietseWind/xrptipbot %}

XRP Tip Bot (reddit /u/xrptipbot, Twitter @xrptipbot) in PHP + NodeJS

### Github Pages

#### GitHub Pages Action

{% github helaili/jekyll-action %}

A GitHub Action to publish Jekyll based content as a GitHub Pages site

#### Github Pages Unscramble

{% github jamesluberda/github-pages-unscramble %}

github-pages-unscramble is a simple Jekyll plugin that undoes some runtime github-pages configuration changes

### Nextcloud Docker Dev

{% github juliushaertl/nextcloud-docker-dev %}

Nextcloud development environment using docker-compose

## Closing notes

## Footnotes

{% user potherca %} {% tag weekly %} {% tag github %} {% tag stars %}

- - -
